.\" $Header: Xqvss.man,v 1.1 87/09/14 14:45:06 toddb Exp $
.TH XQVSS 8 "10 September 1987" "X Version 11"
.SH NAME
Xqvss - X window system QVSS implementation notes
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The QVSS hardware in the DEC VS2 is monochrome.
The usable size is 864 lines by 1024 pixels/line.
(Under Utrix 1.1 the driver thinks the screen is 960
pixels wide; to fix this for a VR260 monitor, patch
the kernel variable qv_def_scrn to 2.).
.PP
Probably the most irritating problem with the QVSS hardware is the
cursor support, which is limited to 16x16.
As only ``and'' and ``or'' operations are available in the hardware,
the driver inverts the cursor depending upon the pixels below
the cursor.
The server displays a reasonable cursor in most (but not all)
circumstances.
.PP
Under Ultrix-32 release 1.1 and 4.2BSD,
the window system will be slightly unreliable due
to a kernel problem.
Fixed in Ultrix32 release 1.2.
Under Ultrix-32 1.1, your best bet is to use unix domain connections
(unix:0 as host spec's) for local connections.
.SH OPTIONS
.br
\fB-bp\fP \fIpixel-value\fP	set default black-pixel color
.br
\fB-wp\fP \fIpixel-value\fP	set default white-pixel color
.sp
The server also takes all of the standard server options (See X(8)
for a complete list.)
.PP
Performance needs to be better, but the server is usable; it
uses the X11 portable monchrome framebuffer code.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.IR X (8)
.IR X (1)
.IR `Xlib - C Language X Interface'
.IR `ddX - Device Dependent X Interface'
.SH AUTHORS
.PP
Phil Karlton wrote the QVSS-specific pieces of X11; thanks to
David Carver of the DEC Workstations group for work on X10.
.br
Copyright (c) 1984, 1985, 1986 by Massachusetts Institute of Technology.
.br
See X(1) for a complete Copyright notice.
