.TH XRDB 1 "29 August 1987" "X Version 11"
.SH NAME
xrdb - Server Resource Database Utility.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B xrdb
[ -q ] [ \fIhost\fP:\fInumber\fP ] [ filename ] 
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Xrdb
is used to set or dump the contents of the RESOURCE_MANAGER property
on the root window of screen 0.
You would normally run this program from your .login script.
This root property normally contains the contents of
your .Xdefaults file.
.LP
The X library XGetDefault routine, and toolkit resource managers
use this property to get user preferences about color, fonts, and so
on for your applications.
This solves the problem present in V10 which required you to
maitain up to date default files on all of the machines you
used in your network.
Any local .Xdefaults file will be merged into this property from the server,
so customization can be performed on a per machine basis.
.TP
.B \-q
This option allows you to query the current contents of the
property, and prints the contents on the standard output.
.SH "OPTIONS"
.PP
.TP 8
.B \fIhost\fP:\fIdisplay\fP
Normally,
.I xfd
gets the host and display number to use from the environment
variable ``DISPLAY''.  One can, however specify them explicitly.
The
.I host
specifies which machine to manipulate the resource data base, and
the
.I number
argument specifies the display number.
.SH FILES
~/.Xdefaults
.SH "SEE ALSO"
XGetDefault(3X)
.SH ENVIRONMENT
DISPLAY	-	To find out which display you are using.
.SH AUTHOR
Jim Gettys
.br
Copyright (c) 1987 by Digital Equipment Corporation
