machine/locore.s	standard
machine/addupc.s	standard
machine/map.s		standard
machine/movc.s		standard
machine/setjmp.s	standard
machine/scb.s		standard
machine/vax.s		standard
machine/autoconf.c	standard
machine/kern_softint.c	standard
machine/machdep.c	standard
machine/mem.c		standard
machine/probe.c		standard
machine/rtclock.c	standard
machine/trap.c		standard
machine/vm_machdep.c	standard
machine/dummy1.c	standard
sys/acct.c		standard
sys/alloc.c		standard
sys/clock.c		standard
sys/errfs.c		standard
sys/fio.c		standard
sys/fs.c		standard
sys/iget.c		standard
sys/ioctl.c		standard
sys/limits.c		standard
sys/main.c		standard
sys/mman.c		standard
sys/ms.c		standard
sys/mount.c		standard
sys/nami.c		standard
sys/netb.c		optional netb pseudo-device
sys/partab.c		standard
sys/pipe.c		standard
sys/prf.c		standard
sys/proca.c		standard
sys/rdwri.c		standard
sys/rmap.c		standard
sys/share.c		standard
sys/sig.c		standard
sys/slp.c		standard
sys/streamio.c		standard
sys/subr.c		standard
sys/sys1.c		standard
sys/sys2.c		standard
sys/sys3.c		standard
sys/sys4.c		standard
sys/sysent.c		standard
sys/text.c		standard
sys/vmdrum.c		standard
sys/vmmem.c		standard
sys/vmmon.c		standard
sys/vmpage.c		standard
sys/vmproc.c		standard
sys/vmpt.c		standard
sys/vmsched.c		standard
sys/vmsubr.c		standard
sys/vmswap.c		standard
sys/vmsys.c		standard
dev/bio.c		standard
dev/connld.c		optional connld pseudo-device
dev/cons.c		standard
dev/dsort.c		standard
dev/mesg.c		optional mesg pseudo-device
dev/nttyld.c		optional ntty pseudo-device
dev/spipe.c		optional sp pseudo-device
dev/stream.c		standard
dev/sw.c		standard
dev/ttyld.c		optional tty pseudo-device
sundev/bwtwo.c		optional bwtwo device-driver
sundev/ie.c		optional ie device-driver
sundev/fbutil.c		standard
sundev/kbdld.c		optional kbd pseudo-device
sundev/keytables.c	optional kbd pseudo-device
sundev/le.c		optional le device-driver
sundev/mb.c		standard device-driver
sundev/sc.c		optional sc device-driver
sundev/sc_conf.c	standard device-driver
sundev/sd.c		optional sd device-driver
sundev/sf.c		optional sf device-driver
sundev/si.c		optional si device-driver
sundev/st.c		optional st device-driver
sundev/zs.c		optional zs device-driver
sundev/zs_asm.s		optional zs device-driver
sundev/zs_common.c	optional zs device-driver
sundev/zs_proto.c	optional zs device-driver
net/arpld.c		optional arp pseudo-device
net/order.c		optional arp pseudo-device
net/netutil.c		optional arp pseudo-device
inet/ip_arp.c		optional uarp pseudo-device
inet/ip_device.c	optional inet pseudo-device
inet/ip_input.c		optional inet pseudo-device
inet/ip_ld.c		optional inet pseudo-device
inet/ip_output.c	optional inet pseudo-device
inet/ip_subr.c		optional inet pseudo-device
inet/vecadd.c		optional inet pseudo-device
inet/socket.c		optional tcp pseudo-device
inet/tcp_device.c	optional tcp pseudo-device
inet/tcp_input.c	optional tcp pseudo-device
inet/tcp_ld.c		optional tcp pseudo-device
inet/tcp_output.c	optional tcp pseudo-device
inet/tcp_subr.c		optional tcp pseudo-device
inet/tcp_timer.c	optional tcp pseudo-device
inet/udp_device.c	optional udp pseudo-device
inet/udp_input.c	optional udp pseudo-device
inet/udp_ld.c		optional udp pseudo-device
inet/udp_output.c	optional udp pseudo-device
