.\" $Header: Xsun.man,v 1.1 87/09/14 14:50:44 toddb Exp $
.TH XSUN 8 "9 Sep 1987" "X Version 11"
.SH NAME
Xsun \- Sun server for X Version 11
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B Xsun
[ option ] ...
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Xsun
is the server for Version 11 of the X window system on Sun hardware.
It will normally be started by
.IR xinit (1),
or perhaps by some script such as:
.LP
.nf
.ta 0.5i 1i 1.5i
#!/bin/sh
home=/disk1d/x11

case "$1" in
"")	X=$home/Bin/X;;
/*)	X=$1;;
*)	X=`pwd`/$1;;
esac

clear
xinit -- $X -fp $home/Lib/fonts -co $home/Lib/rgb
kbd_mode -a
.fi
.PP
.SH
CONFIGURATIONS
.PP
.I Xsun
operates under SunOS versions 3.2,  3.4,  and 4.0,  on Sun/2,  Sun/3
and Sun/4 architectures.
It normally auto-configures to use all available displays;  it supports
the following display types:
.TP
\fBbwtwo\fP
in both 1152*900 and 1600*1280 versions.
.TP
\fBcgtwo\fP
used both as a color and a monochrome display (for X/160C).
.TP
\fBcgfour\fP
used both as a color and a monochrome display (for 3/110 & 3/60).
.PP
It does not support the GP,  GP+,  or GP2.  If you have one of these
installed,  use the
.B -dev
argument to select
.IR /dev/cgtwo0 .
.PP
On a 
.BR cgfour ,
.I Xsun
will use both the monochrome and color screens as if they were
two separate screens side-by-side.  Sliding the mouse off the left and right 
edges will swap screens.
.SH "USE WITH SUNWINDOWS OR NeWS"
.PP
The server can be run from outside 
.BR suntools ,
in which case it configures for all available displays (unless overridden
by
.B -dev
options).
Otherwise,  it can be run ``on top of'' either
.B suntools
or
.BR NeWS .
In this case,  it takes over the entire screen it was invoked from.
.PP
If you have multiple displays,  you can run
.B suntools
on both,  use
.B adjacentscreens
to move the mouse between them,
and then run
.I Xsun
on top of one of the desktops.
.B Adjacentscreens
will still be in effect,  so you can move between window systems
by sliding the mouse from one screen to another.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB-mono\fP
means use a \fBcgtwo\fP,  if present,  as a monochrome device.  Default is use it as
a color device.
Using it as a monochrome device is,  for the present,  mush faster.
.TP
\fB-debug\fP
means that the server is being run from a debugger,
such as
.IR dbx (1),
and that it should
.I not
set its standard input,  output and error files into non-blocking mode.
.TP
\fB-dev\fP
takes the following arument as the name of the special file for
a display device.  If any
.B -dev
arguments are supplied,  they are used.
The server does not auto-configure in this case.
.PP
Other options are described under
.IR X (8).
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
\fBXDEVICE\fP
If present,  and if no explicit
.B -dev
options are given,  specifies the (colon separated) list of display devices
to use.
.TP
\fBWINDOW_PARENT\fP
If present,  specifies the
.I /dev/win
file of the
.B suntools
desktop.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.IR X (8),
.IR xinit (1),
.IR "Godzilla's Guide to Porting the X.11 Sample Server".
.SH BUGS
.TP
1
If the server crashes,  it may leave the keyboard in a non-useful state.
The script above uses the
.I kbd_mode
command (found in the
.I server/ddx/sun
directory) to repair the damage.
.TP
2
The server code is completely untuned,  and has inferior performance.
In particular,  the color code is very slow (but it is very portable).
.TP
3
The auto-configuration depends on there being appropriate
special files in the
.I /dev
directory for the framebuffers which are to be used.  Spurious
entries can disturb
the process.
For example,  the X/160C in fact has the hardware for a monochrome
.B bwtwo0
on the CPU board.  So if your
.I /dev
has a special file for
.IR /dev/bwtwo0 ,
the server will use it,  even though there is no monitor attached to the
monochrome framebuffer.
The server will appear to start,  but not to paint a cursor,  because the
cursor is on the monochrome frame buffer.  The solution is to remove the
.I /dev
entries for any device you don't have a monitor for.
.TP
4
There is a bug which causes the server to crash driving a
.B cgtwo
from a Sun/4.
.TP
5
There is a race condition that sometimes happens when running
``on top of'' NeWS.  The symptom is that parts of NeWS show through,
and that the keyboard is in a non-useful state.  There is no
simple work-around.
.TP
6
Autorepeat for the keyboard cannot be turned off.
.TP
7
The bell is not implemented yet.
.TP
8
Use of the pattern (as opposed to the blanking) screensaver
may cause the server to loop forever.
.TP
9
The cursor colors are correct.  If you are sceptical,  try running
.IR hacks/cursorcolor/cursorcolor .
.SH AUTHORS
.TP
U. C. Berkeley
Adam de Boor.
.TP
Sun Microsystems
David Rosenthal,  Stuart Marks,  Robin Schaufler,  Mike Schwartz,
Frances Ho,  Geoff Lee,  and Mark Opperman.
