.TH BLITBLT 1
.CT 1 comm_other
.SH NAME
blitblt \- print hard copy of screen image
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B blitblt
[
.B -p
.I command
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Blitblt
copies part or all of a 
.IR suntools (1)
or
.IR X (1)
screen into a file
or down a pipe to a printer daemon.
The program is menu-driven off button 3 as follows:
.nr xx \w'\f5sweep rectangle\f1'u+2n/1n
.TP \n(xx
.B choose window
A bull's eye cursor appears.
Clicking button 3 with the cursor inside a window
selects it for subsequent manipulation.
.TP
.B window interior
As above, but the border surrounding the window is not included.
.TP
.B reverse video
The video is inverted in the selected window or rectangle.
.TP
.B sweep rectangle
A rectangle cursor appears.  The rectangle swept out on button 3
becomes the selected area.
.TP
.B whole screen
The entire screen, including border areas is selected.
.TP
.B write file
The portion of the screen previously selected and prepared is written
into a file or pipe. The filename is typed in answer to a prompt appearing
at the bottom of the
.I blitblt
layer.
Hitting return selects the (default) name in parentheses.
If the first character typed is a 
.L |
(pipe symbol), the remainder of
the line is taken as a shell command which will read the bitmap
on its standard input.
.TP
.BI | " command"
The selected portion of the screen is sent to the
.I command
specified by the
.B -p
option (default
.IR bcan .)
.TP
.B exit
Must be confirmed by clicking button 3 in response to the skull cursor.
.SH SEE ALSO
.IR bcan (1), 
.IR bitfile (5), 
.SH BUGS
If a pipe request fails, the
.I blitblt
layer becomes unusable.
.I Blitblt
only works on monochrome displays.
