.TH JTOOLS 1
.CT 1 proc_man
.SH NAME
jtools \(mi 9th edition 5620 style tools for X11 and Suntools
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Jtools
is a set of tools derived from the 9th edition 5620
tools which run under the X11 and Suntools windowing systems.
To use them, add the directory
.F /usr/jtools/bin
to your
.FR PATH .
The files in this directory determine the architecture of the machine
and the window system being used, and call the appropriate binary files.
Each tool, in addition to the arguments specified in the manual pages
take arguments appropriate to the window system.
.PP
In the X11 environment each tool will parse X standard
.F =
geometry specifications.
Arguments of the form
.F "-fn font"
can be used to set the
.I font
for a particular instance of a tool.
Suitable
.I font
names can be obtained with
.I xlsfonts (1).
Alternatively, a default font for all the tools
can be set with an entry of the form:
.RS
.F
JerqFont:	font
.RE
in the file
.FR $HOME/.Xdefaults .
To specify a particular font for all instances of a particular tool
use an entry of the form:
.RS
.F
tool.JerqFont:	font
.RE
Under X11, all the tools can be executed remotely by setting the
X environment variable
.F DISPLAY
to the appropriate machine.
See
.IR X (1)
for more information on setting X defaults and the
.F DISPLAY
environment variable.
.PP
In the
.I suntools
environment each tool will interpret standard
.F -W
window arguments.
See
.IR suntools (1)
for the possible formats.
The default font for the tools can be changed by setting the
.F DEFAULT_FONT
environment variable.
.SH SEE ALSO
.IR cip (1), 
.IR hang (1), 
.IR icon (1), 
.IR life (1), 
.IR pi (1), 
.IR sam (1), 
.IR suntools (1), 
.IR sux (1), 
.IR sysmon (1), 
.IR tek (1), 
.IR X (1), 
.SH BUGS
The
.IR X (1)
server presently does not have a backing store implemented.
This causes a tools to redraw itself in X environments
whenever a new section of the tool is exposed due to a rearrangement
of windows by the window manager.
In X, the tools may wait indefinitely if a window manager is not running
and a geometry specification argument is not given when the tool is started.
.PP
Every tool under \fIsuntools\fR(1) requires a separate process to maintain the border.
.PP
Some of the tools implemented as 2 processes (such as
.I pi
and
.IR sam )
check the environment variable
.F TERM
to determine the name of the companion process.
In these tools,
.F TERM
should be set to
.I sun
or
.I xterm
for correct operation.
