.TH SUX 1
.CT 1 comm_term
.SH NAME
sux - mux style terminal windows for X11 and suntools
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B sux
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Sux
creates in interactive terminal window for \fIX11\fR
and \fIsuntools\fR which emulates 9th Edition \fImux\fR terminal
windows.
When sux is started, a separate shell
(the value of the
.B SHELL
environment variable, or
.I sh
by default)
is established, and bound to the window.
.PP
There is a point
in each window, called the `Unix point', where
the next character from Unix will be inserted.
The Unix point advances whenever characters
are received from Unix, but not when echoing typed characters.
When a newline is typed after the Unix point,
characters between the Unix point and the newline,
inclusive, are sent to Unix and the
Unix point advanced to after the newline.
This means that
shell prompts and other output will be inserted before
characters that have been typed ahead.
No other characters are sent to Unix (but see the discussion of raw mode
below).
Therefore partially typed lines or text anywhere before the Unix
point may be edited.
.PP
.I Sux
allows any text on the screen to be edited, much as in
.IR sam (1).
Text may be selected by sweeping it with button 1 depressed.
Typed characters replace selected text.
.PP
All \fIsux\fR windows share a common `snarf buffer' (distinct from
.IR sam 's).
The
.B cut
operation on button 2 deletes selected text and puts it
in the buffer;
.B snarf
copies selected text to the buffer;
.B paste
replaces selected text (which may be null) from the buffer; and
.B send
copies the snarf buffer to after the Unix point.
.PP
Normally the terminal doesn't scroll
as text is received, but a button 2 menu item selects scrolling.
.PP
A scroll bar indicates what portion of all the text stored
for a \fIsux\fR window is on the screen.
(It measures characters, not lines.)
Releasing button 1 in the scroll bar brings the line at the top
of the screen to the cursor;
releasing button 3 takes the line at the cursor
to the top of the screen.
Button 2, treating the scroll bar as a ruler, brings the indicated
point in the whole stored text to the top of the screen.
.PP
In raw mode or no-echo mode (see
.IR tty (4))
the Unix point advances with each character
typed after it.
.SH SEE ALSO
.IR sam (1), 
.SH BUGS
On non-9th Edition systems, it is not possible for
.I sux
to determine when the line discipline changes to and from raw mode.
As a result,
.I sux
always assumes it is in raw mode so it is not possible to use the mouse
to edit partially typed lines.
