.\" $Header: Xapollo.man,v 1.1 87/09/14 15:30:06 toddb Exp $
.TH XAPOLLO 8 "9 Sep 1987" "X Version 11"
.SH NAME
Xapollo \- Apollo server for X Version 11
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B Xapollo
[ option ] ...
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Xapollo
is the server for Version 11 of the
.I X
window system on Apollo systems.
It will normally be started by
.I xinit (1),
or by a shell script run from an interactive shell.
.SH CONFIGURATIONS
.I Xapollo
operates under DOMAIN/IX, with at least Apollo software release SR9.5.1.
It operates on any Apollo display hardware, although it runs in monochrome
even on color systems.
It requires a keyboard with a mouse.
TCP/IP software must also be installed and running.
.SH OPTIONS
The Xapollo server program takes no device-dependent options; only the
"standard" X11 server command line options can be used.
These options are described under
.I X (8).
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.I X (8),
.I xinit (1).
.SH LIMITATIONS
As mentioned above, this is a monochrome-only port using the portable MFB
code, therefore performance is not as good as it is for the Apollo X Version 10
implementation.  Also, the keyboard support for keyboard 3 could allow more
natural use of control and shift, and it could add more Apollo keys to the
keymap.
.SH BUGS
There is a known race condition in the pre-SR9.7 versions of TCP/IP which may
make local clients hang just after establishing connections to the server.
This problem does not exist with remote clients.
.PP
At SR9.7, this problem has been fixed.
.SH AUTHORS
.TP
Apollo Computer Inc.

